This specification is dual licensed under the JCP License and the Apache
2.0 License.

*JCP License*

IVAR GRIMSTAD IS WILLING TO LICENSE THIS SPECIFICATION TO YOU ONLY UPON
THE CONDITION THAT YOU ACCEPT ALL OF THE TERMS CONTAINED IN THIS LICENSE
AGREEMENT (``AGREEMENT''). PLEASE READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS
AGREEMENT CAREFULLY. BY DOWNLOADING THIS SPECIFICATION, YOU ACCEPT THE
TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE NOT WILLING TO BE
BOUND BY THEM, SELECT THE ``DECLINE'' BUTTON AT THE BOTTOM OF THIS PAGE
AND THE DOWNLOADING PROCESS WILL NOT CONTINUE.

Specification: JSR-371 MVC (``Specification'') +
Version: 1.0 +
Status: Pre-FCS Public Release +
Release: Early Draft Release 2 +
Copyright 2017 Ivar Grimstad (ivar.grimstad@gmail.com) +
All rights reserved.

NOTICE

The Specification is protected by copyright and the information
described therein may be protected by one or more U.S. patents, foreign
patents, or pending applications. Except as provided under the following
license, no part of the Specification may be reproduced in any form by
any means without the prior written authorization of Ivar Grimstad and
its licensors, if any. Any use of the Specification and the information
described therein will be governed by the terms and conditions of this
Agreement.

Subject to the terms and conditions of this license, including your
compliance with Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 below, Ivar Grimstad hereby grants
you a fully-paid, non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited license
(without the right to sublicense) under Ivar Grimstad’s intellectual
property rights to:

\1. Review the Specification for the purposes of evaluation. This
includes: (i) developing implementations of the Specification for your
internal, non-commercial use; (ii) discussing the Specification with any
third party; and (iii) excerpting brief portions of the Specification in
oral or written communications which discuss the Specification provided
that such excerpts do not in the aggregate constitute a significant
portion of the Specification.

\2. Distribute implementations of the Specification to third parties for
their testing and evaluation use, provided that any such implementation:

\(i) does not modify, subset, superset or otherwise extend the Licensor
Name Space, or include any public or protected packages, classes, Java
interfaces, fields or methods within the Licensor Name Space other than
those required/authorized by the Specification or Specifications being
implemented;

\(ii) is clearly and prominently marked with the word ``UNTESTED'' or
``EARLY ACCESS'' or ``INCOMPATIBLE'' or ``UNSTABLE'' or ``BETA'' in any
list of available builds and in proximity to every link initiating its
download, where the list or link is under Licensee’s control; and

\(iii) includes the following notice:

``This is an implementation of an early-draft specification developed
under the Java Community Process (JCP) and is made available for testing
and evaluation purposes only. The code is not compatible with any
specification of the JCP.''

\3. Distribute applications written to the Specification to third
parties for their testing and evaluation use, provided that any such
application includes the following notice:

``This is an application written to interoperate with an early-draft
specification developed under the Java Community Process (JCP) and is
made available for testing and evaluation purposes only. The code is not
compatible with any specification of the JCP.''

The grant set forth above concerning your distribution of
implementations of the Specification is contingent upon your agreement
to terminate development and distribution of your implementation upon
final completion of the Specification. If you fail to do so, the
foregoing grant shall be considered null and void. Other than this
limited license, you acquire no right, title or interest in or to the
Specification or any other Ivar Grimstad intellectual property, and the
Specification may only be used in accordance with the license terms set
forth herein. This license will expire on the earlier of: (a) two (2)
years from the date of Release listed above; (b) the date on which the
final version of the Specification is publicly released; or (c) the date
on which the Java Specification Request (JSR) to which the Specification
corresponds is withdrawn. In addition, this license will terminate
immediately without notice from Ivar Grimstad if you fail to comply with
any provision of this license. Upon termination, you must cease use of
or destroy the Specification.

``Licensor Name Space'' means the public class or interface declarations
whose names begin with ``java'', ``javax'', ``com.[Specification Lead]''
or their equivalents in any subsequent naming convention adopted through
the Java Community Process, or any recognized successors or replacements
thereof

TRADEMARKS

No right, title, or interest in or to any trademarks, service marks, or
trade names of Ivar Grimstad or Ivar Grimstad’s licensors is granted
hereunder. Java and Java-related logos, marks and names are trademarks
or registered trademarks of Oracle America, Inc. in the U.S. and other
countries.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES

THE SPECIFICATION IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND IS EXPERIMENTAL AND MAY
CONTAIN DEFECTS OR DEFICIENCIES WHICH CANNOT OR WILL NOT BE CORRECTED BY
IVAR GRIMSTAD. IVAR GRIMSTAD MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES,
EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT
THAT THE CONTENTS OF THE SPECIFICATION ARE SUITABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE OR
THAT ANY PRACTICE OR IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH CONTENTS WILL NOT INFRINGE
ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADE SECRETS OR OTHER RIGHTS. This
document does not represent any commitment to release or implement any
portion of the Specification in any product.

THE SPECIFICATION COULD INCLUDE TECHNICAL INACCURACIES OR TYPOGRAPHICAL
ERRORS. CHANGES ARE PERIODICALLY ADDED TO THE INFORMATION THEREIN; THESE
CHANGES WILL BE INCORPORATED INTO NEW VERSIONS OF THE SPECIFICATION, IF
ANY. IVAR GRIMSTAD MAY MAKE IMPROVEMENTS AND/OR CHANGES TO THE
PRODUCT(S) AND/OR THE PROGRAM(S) DESCRIBED IN THE SPECIFICATION AT ANY
TIME. Any use of such changes in the Specification will be governed by
the then-current license for the applicable version of the
Specification.

LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL IVAR GRIMSTAD OR
ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION,
LOST REVENUE, PROFITS OR DATA, OR FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, HOWEVER CAUSED AND REGARDLESS OF THE
THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO ANY FURNISHING,
PRACTICING, MODIFYING OR ANY USE OF THE SPECIFICATION, EVEN IF IVAR
GRIMSTAD AND/OR ITS LICENSORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES.

You will hold Ivar Grimstad (and its licensors) harmless from any claims
based on your use of the Specification for any purposes other than the
limited right of evaluation as described above, and from any claims that
later versions or releases of any Specification furnished to you are
incompatible with the Specification provided to you under this license.

RESTRICTED RIGHTS LEGEND

If this Software is being acquired by or on behalf of the U.S.
Government or by a U.S. Government prime contractor or subcontractor (at
any tier), then the Government’s rights in the Software and accompanying
documentation shall be only as set forth in this license; this is in

accordance with 48 C.F.R. 227.7201 through 227.7202-4 (for Department of
Defense (DoD) acquisitions) and with 48 C.F.R. 2.101 and 12.212 (for
non-DoD acquisitions).

REPORT

You may wish to report any ambiguities, inconsistencies or inaccuracies
you may find in connection with your evaluation of the Specification
(``Feedback''). To the extent that you provide Ivar Grimstad with any
Feedback, you hereby: (i) agree that such Feedback is provided on a
non-proprietary and non-confidential basis, and (ii) grant Ivar Grimstad
a perpetual, non-exclusive, worldwide, fully paid-up, irrevocable
license, with the right to sublicense through multiple levels of
sublicensees, to incorporate, disclose, and use without limitation the
Feedback for any purpose related to the Specification and future
versions, implementations, and test suites thereof.

GENERAL TERMS

Any action related to this Agreement will be governed by California law
and controlling U.S. federal law. The U.N. Convention for the
International Sale of Goods and the choice of law rules of any
jurisdiction will not apply.

The Specification is subject to U.S. export control laws and may be
subject to export or import regulations in other countries. Licensee
agrees to comply strictly with all such laws and regulations and
acknowledges that it has the responsibility to obtain such licenses to
export, re-export or import as may be required after delivery to
Licensee.

This Agreement is the parties’ entire agreement relating to its subject
matter. It supersedes all prior or contemporaneous oral or written
communications, proposals, conditions, representations and warranties
and prevails over any conflicting or additional terms of any quote,
order, acknowledgment, or other communication between the parties
relating to its subject matter during the term of this Agreement. No
modification to this Agreement will be binding, unless in writing and
signed by an authorized representative of each party.

Rev. January 2006

*Apache License* +
Version 2.0, January 2004 +
http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

\1. Definitions.

``License'' shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

``Licensor'' shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the
copyright owner that is granting the License.

``Legal Entity'' shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other
entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control
with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, ``control'' means
(i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management
of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of
fifty percent (50 outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of
such entity.

``You'' (or ``Your'') shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
exercising permissions granted by this License.

``Source'' form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
including but not limited to software source code, documentation source,
and configuration files.

``Object'' form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not
limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and
conversions to other media types.

``Work'' shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object
form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright
notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is
provided in the Appendix below).

``Derivative Works'' shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

``Contribution'' shall mean any work of authorship, including the
original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to that
Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to
Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an
individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the
copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, ``submitted''
means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to
the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
designated in writing by the copyright owner as ``Not a Contribution.''

``Contributor'' shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
subsequently incorporated within the Work.

\2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright
license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display,
publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and such
Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

\3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide,
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in
this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell,
sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license
applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that
are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by
combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such
Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation
against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a
lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within
the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then
any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work
shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

\4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work
or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet the
following conditions:

\(a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works
a copy of this License; and

\(b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
stating that You changed the files; and

\(c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that
You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution
notices from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that
do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and

\(d) If the Work includes a ``NOTICE'' text file as part of its
distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include
a readable copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE
file, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the
Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a
NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within the
Source form or documentation, if provided along with the Derivative
Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents of the
NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the
License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative
Works that You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE
text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution notices
cannot be construed as modifying the License.

You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may
provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use,
reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such
Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and
distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated
in this License.

\5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by
You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this
License, without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the
above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any
separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor regarding
such Contributions.

\6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

\7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed
to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides
its Contributions) on an ``AS IS'' BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR
CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without
limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT,
MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or
redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your
exercise of permissions under this License.

\8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless
required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent
acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You
for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or
consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this
License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but
not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer
failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or
losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of
such damages.

\9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the
Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a
fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability
obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in
accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on
Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and
only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor
harmless for any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such
Contributor by reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional
liability.
